# EE120B-Final-Project
Lab Report
  For my project, I implemented the Simon game. Within my build I used the microcontroller that we as a class were taught throughout the course to implement the system. In my code, I programmed the board to take in the user input of four buttons that are wired into PINA of the microcontroller. Also, these buttons were wired to ground on the breadboard. For the LCD screen, I wired the inputs and all other computational wires to PINC. For the ISP, it was wired to ground and to PINB. Along with the ISP, the LED lights which specifically are colored to represent the different lights are connected to PINB with a resistor in between. For the reset button, it is connected to PINA. Lastly, for the speaker to output the tones of the lights, it is wired to PINB and then grounded. The purpose of the game is to correctly guess the sequence that is generated by random. By checking for this, the user utilizes the buttons on the breadboard, with each button representing a light. The outputs of the LED lights are customized by random. The user is prompted with a welcome screen, asking the user to press the button to begin. When the button is pressed, the srand seeds the output of the LED lights for the user to guess. Initially starting a one, if the user correctly guesses the input right, the srand increases the sequence by one, and the score is outputted on the LED board to show the user his or her progress during the game. This keeps repeating until the user reaches a max of nine correct guesses. When this occurs, the LCD screen shows the message “You win!” and is prompted to start the game again by pressing the reset button. When the button is pressed, a different random output is generated. While these outputs are generated with the LED light and when the user presses on the button, the speaker will output a tone. Each LED light is programmed to output a different frequency each time. Within the code, I used the pulse width modulator to output the speaker tones.
When testing the game, I used Atmel Studio 6.2 to code our project in C. The ISP device I used was an ATmega1284. Throughout my time making the project, I incrementally devised what possible state machines were needed and how to implement them. First of all, I started with the LED lights. The purpose of the LED lights were to output a random first and then output the light the user pressed with the button. Then I started the button state machine after. Lastly, I brainstormed ideas for the speaker and what kind of tones I would use. Initially I had problems trying to change the seed for the srand every time. However, after manipulating the code a little bit to store the variable as a seed and then incrementing, it solved the problem. Another problem was that my buttons on my board were very buggy and defective. A lot of the times I would have to push on the button really hard, but that would result in the software thinking that I pushed the button twice, leading it to end the game. My solution was to press the button hard, but fast. Another issue was when I started to implement the speaker, I had issues turning off the tone after the button was pressed. There was also a delay with the tones sometimes as well. Overall, this project was fun and I learned a lot in this process. Incremental design was really helpful in this case where instead if I were to do it all at once and have many errors, I probably would not have been successful. This project demonstrated what we as a class learned throughout the summer session, focusing heavily on state machines whether it was concurrent, basic, or synchronous. In retrospect, my project for Simon had multiple setbacks, but it is fully functional and able to do its job completely.

For a video demonstration, there is an attached link below.


https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B4amplE2ZvL1WXVjbXZWTUV1bDA
